Version: 2.0.0

Release date: 29-Oct-2005

Description:
  The official 2.0 release. No functional changes since rc6, just
  documentation updates.

  
History:
  2.0-rc6: (25-Sep-2005):

  Added simple logger wrappers for log4j and java.util.logging: now it
  should be trivial to make JUG use either of these logging sub-systems,
  when integrating it to an existing system.

  2.0-rc5: (05-Sep-2005):

  Integrated non-NetBIOS-based JNI Windows code, contributed by Klaus R.
  Also, improved src/c/makefile a bit, which lead to name change of the
  JNI libraries (due to my inexperience with make files, had to make some
  system-dependant parts lower-case).

  2.0-rc4: (16-Aug-2005),
  2.0-rc3: (09-Aug-2005)
    Cleanup; integrating last minor fixes to JNI code, compiled macos and linux
    modules, added missing classes to jar.

  2.0-rc2:
    New functionality:
    - Simple configurable logging sub-system
    - External synchronization for time-stamp persistence, as well as
      file-locking based multi-JVM-safe locking. Can prevent running
      Jug from multiple JVMs, as well as all are configured to properly
      use shared locking file(s).

  2.0-rc1:
    Changes:
     - Renamed package 'org.doomdark.uuid' to 'org.safehaus.uuid' as part of
       the transition to become one of official Safehaus projects (at
       http://jug.safehaus.org).
    Fixes:
     - JNI fix on Linux code: now properly frees socket data structure on
       all use cases
     - Fix to MacOsX (and thus BSD) code: will not get into infinite loop
       when trying to access multiple interfaces.

  1.1.2: Minor fix:
     - Added Main-Class definition to jar manifest, to allow normal invocation
       (of Jug command-line functionality) from jar.

  1.1.1: Minor fixes:
     - Added FreeBSD recognition check suggested by Jonas Fügedi.

  1.1: Better native support, full unit test suite.
     - Fixed a bug in Windows MAC address access, which would cause
       infinite loop under some conditions on Win9x/2K/XP.
     - Added FreeBSD/x86 native code.
     - Added full unit test suite.
     - Fixed a bug in dummy ethernet broadcast generation code.
     - Changed API to allow using any Random implementation, not just
       SecureRandom or its subclasses.

  1.0.3: Better native support, a minor bugfix.
     - Bug fix to UUID.java class (another bug in toByteArray(),
       or potentially regressed first one?)
     - Mac OS X native MAC address access support (for primary
       interface)
     - Small improvements Ant build definitions (need to include targets
       for doing JavaDocs and source distribution
     - Added BUGS file that contains known problems.

  1.0.2: Minor updates:
     - Native code can now be loaded either from application specific
       location (default case, supported since 1.0.0), or from
	   system-dependant standard lib location (new to 1.0.2)
     - Trying to add ant build support to replace make. Not yet
	   fully done.

  1.0.1: Minor fixes:
	- UUID.java class (bug in toByteArray() fixed)
	- Updated README file to contain reference to a new IETF draft:

	  http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-mealling-uuid-urn-00.txt

	  which describes UUIDs as well as presents a suggested way for
	  'encapsulating' UUIDs in a URN name space.

  1.0.0: Added native modules for obtaining Ethernet MAC address (see
	CREDITS for details about source of these sources)

-----
Note: release notes for versions prior to 1.0 removed; refer to version 1.1.2
for those versions for details.
